# Continuum model of Cancer development

This repository hosts the codebase and analytical workflows for the manuscript “The Impact of Passenger Mutations on Cancer Development.” The project explores the functional effects of passenger mutations across diverse cancer types, quantifies their impact on patient survival, and evaluates their value as prognostic biomarkers.

## Repository Structure

- **data/**: Used to store raw data used for all analyses. Not shared due to storage or privacy constraints.
- **metadata/**: Contains text files and tabular data obtained from multiple sources, and used for analyses.
- **notebooks/**: Contains Jupyter notebooks that use the processed data in the **results/** directory for further analysis and data visualization.
- **results/**: Results generated by **scripts/** and **notebooks/** are saved here.
- **scripts/**: Contains scripts used for downloading, parsing, and pre-processing data. Also contains meta scripts for running other scripts.
- **slurm/**: Contains scripts used for running jobs on the cluster.
- **conda_env_cancer_model.yml**: Conda environment specification file, used for reproducing the conda environment used here.

## Getting Started

To get started with the project, clone the repository and install the required dependencies. Create a new conda environment for the project using the provided specifications.

```bash

# clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Georgakopoulos-Soares-lab/cancer_model.git
cd cancer_model

# create a new conda environment
conda env create -f conda_env_cancer_model.yml
conda activate cancer_model

```
- Download and setup [Annovar](https://www.openbioinformatics.org/annovar/annovar_download_form.php)
- Download CADD [file](https://cadd.gs.washington.edu/download)
- Setup [Pangolin tool](https://github.com/tkzeng/Pangolin)

## Contact
For questions or to report bugs, contact -
```
abn5461@psu.edu (Akshatha Nayak)
izg5139@psu.edu (Ilias Georgakopoulos-Soares)
```
